README.md, before:

Currency Rate Analysis and Prediction

A project integrating data from the National Bank of Poland API, Python script, and reporting in Power BI.

# 1. Comparative Analysis
A central analytical panel comparing key trends for four major currencies in a selected time frame.
<img width="1385" height="733" alt="Analiza porownawcza" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d36310d4-e0b0-4bb0-b7ff-e807acbafac6" />

# 2. Detailed Market Analysis
Matrix showing average monthly exchange rates.
<img width="1337" height="731" alt="Kurs wybranej waluty" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ac4fe6bf-810e-439e-8233-0e46a3722aef" />

An indicator comparing the current exchange rate to the previous day's quote.
<img width="1299" height="729" alt="Porownanie kursu" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9596efba-2539-4280-8637-0be1791c51e1" />

# 3. Advanced features
Integration of Python script within Power BI. Presentation of historical data, calculation of linear trends, and prediction for the nearest period.
<img width="1299" height="734" alt="Analiza predykcyjna" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7e5f4dda-ec48-4aac-8afe-22575570ab65" />

Investment Simulator
Allows users to check the cost of purchasing a specific amount of currency at the average exchange rate.
<img width="1301" height="730" alt="Kwota inwestycji" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/653a0e59-f341-4ea3-8938-794e5c0f0066" />

#4. Source Data
Complete historical table downloaded automatically from the National Bank of Poland API. (http://api.nbp.pl/api/exchangerates/tables/A/last/30/?format=json)
<img width="1338" height="729" alt="Pelne dane" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9314c772-c3e9-4cbc-bd5b-0e19e58c193b" />

Commit message:

Add prerequisites for Power BI usage
Added prerequisites section for using the analytical report.

README.md, after:

Currency Rate Analysis and Prediction

A project integrating data from the National Bank of Poland API, Python script, and reporting in Power BI.

## Prerequisites
To open and interact with the analytical report, you need to have:
**Microsoft Power BI Desktop** (available for free from the Microsoft Store).

# 1. Comparative Analysis
A central analytical panel comparing key trends for four major currencies in a selected time frame.
<img width="1385" height="733" alt="Analiza porownawcza" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d36310d4-e0b0-4bb0-b7ff-e807acbafac6" />

# 2. Detailed Market Analysis
Matrix showing average monthly exchange rates.
<img width="1337" height="731" alt="Kurs wybranej waluty" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ac4fe6bf-810e-439e-8233-0e46a3722aef" />

An indicator comparing the current exchange rate to the previous day's quote.
<img width="1299" height="729" alt="Porownanie kursu" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9596efba-2539-4280-8637-0be1791c51e1" />

# 3. Advanced features
Integration of Python script within Power BI. Presentation of historical data, calculation of linear trends, and prediction for the nearest period.
<img width="1299" height="734" alt="Analiza predykcyjna" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7e5f4dda-ec48-4aac-8afe-22575570ab65" />

Investment Simulator
Allows users to check the cost of purchasing a specific amount of currency at the average exchange rate.
<img width="1301" height="730" alt="Kwota inwestycji" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/653a0e59-f341-4ea3-8938-794e5c0f0066" />

#4. Source Data
Complete historical table downloaded automatically from the National Bank of Poland API. (http://api.nbp.pl/api/exchangerates/tables/A/last/30/?format=json)
<img width="1338" height="729" alt="Pelne dane" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9314c772-c3e9-4cbc-bd5b-0e19e58c193b" />
